The main causes were militarism, alliances, imperialism, nationalism. The trigger for WWI was the assasination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand.
As of 2025 there're 27 EU member states.
The Treaty of Versailles marked the end of WWI, however it created a resentment among germans whose country faced huge territorial loses and had to pay reparations. This led to the rise of Adolf Hitler.
Vaccines work by imitating an infection to engage the body’s natural defenses. Vaccines help the body learn how to defend itself from disease without the dangers of a full-blown infection.
Artificial intelligence presents several ethical challenges, including bias and discrimination, transparency and accountability, privacy concerns, employment displacement, and the potential for misuse.
Quantum computing differs from classical computing by using qubits, which leverage superposition to exist as 0, 1, or both simultaneously, allowing for massively parallel processing. Entanglement further enhances computational efficiency, enabling quantum systems to solve complex problems much faster than classical ones.
Protests have erupted in Turkey after authorities detained the mayor of Istanbul (Ekrem Imamoglu), just days before he was due to be selected as a presidential candidate. He is seen as a strong rival to President Recep Tayyip Erdogan.
59 people between the ages of 16 and 24 have died in the nightclub fire.
Internet memes have evolved into a potent form of digital communication, extending beyond mere entertainment to influence social and political spheres. They serve as tools for self-expression, allowing individuals to convey complex ideas. Memes can transcend cultural boundaries.
Witcher 3 became game of the year in 2015.
Cryptocurrencies have benefits like removing the need for a mediator like a bank, decentralization, fast transfer times and safety against inflation.
Donald Trump won the US-elections in 2024 defeating Harris.
The reasons Hip-Hop fans think the 90s was the Golden era is because of Originality, Cultural Impact, Expansion, Beat Production and Quality.
Edward Snowden fled to Russia in 2013.
Though not officially supported one can run LoL by leveraging Wine, a powerful tool that can execute Windows applications on Linux. Other options are Lutris, PlayOnLinux, GameHub or through Snap packages.
Knowing C opens up a wide range of career opportunities. System programmers, embedded systems developers, and game developers are all in high demand. As technology continues to evolve, the need for skilled C programmers will only increase. 
Switzerland became the 10 most safe country in the world in 2023.
The top 3 major events that 2020 was marked by was the COVID-19 pandemic, the wildfires in Australia and the US-elections.
There are two theories surrounding the origin of people: one based on scientific evidence (evolution from apes) and the other based on religion (creation by God). The author believes in the theory of creation, however cannot refute the other one.
BMW manufactures its vehicles in several plants strategically located across Germany, China, South Africa, the United States and through partnerships in other countries around the world. BMW’s Headquarters and Main Plant are located in Munich, Germany.
Ragu alla Bolognese, also known simply as Bolognese, is recognized as the national dish of Italy.
Frequently donating plasma doesn't have any negative health impacts, since the body can replenish the lost fluids and proteins in the matter of 2 days. Donating plasma frequently can even reduce cardiovasciular-diseases.
Tupak Shakur was shot and shortly after has passed away in 1996 in Las Vegas. 
Many of the conspiracy theories surrounding 9/11 have been debunked, one of the most popular ones being - the US-government using explosives to bring down the twin-towers. There hasn't been any conclusive evidence to prove the involvement of the US-government.
No information has been found about aliens in Area 51.